# Upgrade Instruction for v2.0.0

This document describes the steps for all Crescent validators and full node operators to upgrade their nodes with [v2.0.0](https://github.com/crescent-network/crescent/releases/tag/v2.0.0). Reference [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/crescent-network/crescent/blob/v2.0.0/CHANGELOG.md) for the changes.

## Information

- Proposal #: **12**
- Chain ID: **crescent-1**
- Upgrade Name: **v2.0.0**
- Upgrade Height: **1384100**
- Estimated Upgrade Date and Time: **2022-07-18T12:00:00+0000 UTC**
- Binary: [v1.1.0](https://github.com/crescent-network/crescent/releases/tag/v1.1.0) to [v2.0.0](https://github.com/crescent-network/crescent/releases/tag/v2.0.0)


## Chain ID

The chain-id of the network will **NOT BE CHANGED**. It will remain the same as `crescent-1`. This is because an in-place migration of state will take place, which means that this upgrade does not require to export any state.

## Block Height and Time

The upgrade will take place at a block height `1384100`. At the time of writing, an estimated upgrade time is `2022-07-18T12:00:00+0000 UTC` at current block time (around 6s/block). This date/time is approximate as blocks are not generated at a constant interval, so we encourage all validators and node operators to expect this and standby around the time. 

## Preparation

### **Backup**

Prior to the upgrade, it is **IMPORTANT** that validators are prepared to have either a full data snapshot or use third-party trusted data source. Snapshotting depends heavily on infrastructure, but generally this can be done by backing up the data directory, which resides in `$HOME/.crescent`. If you use `Cosmovisor` to upgrade, `Cosmovisor` will backup your data upon upgrade by default.

Once again, it is critically important for validator operators to back-up the `.crescent/data/priv_validator_state.json` file after stopping the crescentd process. This file is updated every block as your validator participates in consensus rounds. It is a critical file needed to prevent double-signing, in case the upgrade fails and the previous chain needs to be restarted.

### Current Version
Current Mainnet is running with [v1.1.0](https://github.com/crescent-network/crescent/releases/tag/v1.1.0) with the chain id `crescent-1`.

### Target Version
All Crescent validators and node operators **MUST** use [v2.0.0](https://github.com/crescent-network/crescent/releases/tag/v2.0.0) to upgrade their nodes to remain connected to the network.

### (Important) Update `config.toml`

In this upgrade, we introduce Crescent's newly implemented orderbook functionality. In order to run it smoothly, the block time is suggested to be shortened to improve user experience. We kindly ask you to update `timeout_commit` value to `4s` in the `config.toml` file, which is located in `$HOME/.crescent/app/` directory.

## Upgrade Steps

The following ways are the 2 major ways to upgrade a node:

- Manual Upgrade
- Upgrade using [Cosmovisor](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/master/cosmovisor)

If you prefer to use `Cosmovisor` to upgrade, some preparation work is needed before upgrade, such as new binary must be prepared manually.

### Method I: Manual Upgrade (Recommended)

You are running `crescentd` with [v1.1.0](https://github.com/crescent-network/crescent/releases/tag/v1.1.0) until the upgrade height and the node will panic with the following logs:

```
ERR UPGRADE "v2.0.0" NEEDED at height: 1384100
ERR CONSENSUS FAILURE!!! err="UPGRADE "v2.0.0" NEEDED at height: 1384100
...
.....
.......
```

Now, stop the node and install new binary with [v2.0.0](https://github.com/crescent-network/crescent/releases/tag/v2.0.0) and restart node with the following command `crescentd start --halt-height 1072528`.

This may take from 20 minutes to a few hours depending on validators participation. A total sum voting power > 2/3 is required to start chain to produce next blocks.

### Method II: Upgrade using `Cosmovisor` 

### Preparation

Install the latest version of `Cosmovisor`:

```bash
# The latest version may be different, so make sure you check the version
go install github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/cosmovisor/cmd/cosmovisor@v1.0.0
```

Create a `cosmovisor` folder inside `$CRESCENT_HOME` and move `crescentd (v2.0.0)` into `$CRESCENT_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin` directory.

```bash
export CRESCENT_HOME={SET_YOUR_CRESCENT_HOME}
$(which crescentd) version # v2.0.0

mkdir -p $CRESCENT_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
cp $(which crescentd) $CRESCENT_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
```

Build Crescent `v2.0.0` and move `crescentd` to `$CRESCENT_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0.0/bin` directory.

```bash
export CRESCENT_UPGRADE_PATH={SET_YOUR_PATH}
$CRESCENT_UPGRADE_PATH version # v2.0.0

mkdir -p  $CRESCENT_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0.0/bin
cp $CRESCENT_UPGRADE_PATH $CRESCENT_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0.0/bin
```

Then you should get the following structure:

```
.
├── current -> genesis or upgrades/<name>
├── genesis
│   └── bin
│       └── crescentd  #v1.1.0
└── upgrades
└── v2.0.0
└── bin
    └── crescentd  #v2.0.0
```

Export the environmental variables:

```bash
export DAEMON_NAME=crescentd
export DAEMON_HOME=$CRESCENT_HOME # USE YOUR OWN HOME DIRECTORY
export DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=true
```

Start the node:

```bash
cosmovisor start --x-crisis-skip-assert-invariants
```

### Expected Upgrade Result

When the upgrade block height is reached, you can find the following information in the log:

```
ERR UPGRADE "v2.0.0" NEEDED at height: 1384100: upgrade to v2.0.0 and applying upgrade "v2.0.0" at height:1384100.
```

This may take 20 min to a few hours.
After this, the chain will continue to produce blocks when validators with a total sum voting power > 2/3 complete their nodes upgrades.

### ~~Method III: upgrade using Cosmovisor by auto-downloading the Crescent ****v2.0.0**** binary~~

This update is not applicable for this method, `binaries` is not set to upgrade-info of upgrade proposal, so please use method 1 and 2.

## Upgrade duration

The upgrade may take several hours to complete because `crescent-1` participants operate globally with differing operating hours and it may take some time for operators to upgrade their binaries and connect to the network.

## Rollback plan

During the network upgrade, core Crescent teams will be keeping an ever vigilant eye and communicating with operators on the status of their upgrades. During this time, the core teams will listen to operator needs to determine if the upgrade is experiencing unintended challenges. In the event of unexpected challenges, the core teams, after conferring with operators and attaining social consensus, may choose to declare that the upgrade will be skipped.

Steps to skip this upgrade proposal are simply to resume the crescent-1 network with the (downgraded) v1.1.0 binary using the following command:

> crescentd start --unsafe-skip-upgrade 1384100
>

Note: There is no particular need to restore a state snapshot prior to the upgrade height, unless specifically directed by core Crescent teams.

Important: A social consensus decision to skip the upgrade will be based solely on technical merits, thereby respecting and maintaining the decentralized governance process of the upgrade proposal's successful YES vote.

## Communications

Operators are encouraged to join the `#validators-general` channel of the Crescent Network Community Discord. This channel is the primary communication tool for operators to ask questions, report upgrade status, report technical issues, and to build social consensus should the need arise. 

## Risks

As a validator performing the upgrade procedure on your consensus nodes carries a heightened risk of double-signing and being slashed. The most important piece of this procedure is verifying your software version and genesis file hash before starting your validator and signing.

The riskiest thing a validator can do is discover that they made a mistake and repeat the upgrade procedure again during the network startup. If you discover a mistake in the process, the best thing to do is wait for the network to start before correcting it.

## Reference

[Cosmos Hub 4, Vega Upgrade, Instructions](https://github.com/cosmos/gaia/blob/main/docs/migration/cosmoshub-4-vega-upgrade.md)
